Since the 1980’s,
the Central America branch
has been organizing
special preaching campaigns
to seldom-worked territories
and unassigned territories
—both here in Mexico
and also throughout all of Central America.
Matter of fact, in the last campaign,
we had 13,000 regular pioneers
assigned to over 900 congregations
and in some areas where
there weren’t even congregations,
for example, in El Salvador.
When we were assigned here,
we were told that there were no Witnesses,
no Bible studies, and no publishers.
This is the second meeting
that we’ve had the public talk,
and today we had 12 new ones attend.
Well, since we’re in a rural area,
you have to do a lot of walking.
We’ve had to deal with the cows
and other smaller creatures, like ticks.
Eight or nine brothers
were staying in one house,
so they had to get up super early
—sometimes at four in the morning—
just to get ready on time.
The brothers who come on these campaigns
come resolved to help the congregation.
They’re really enthusiastic
about the ministry, and it’s contagious.
We’ve found many studies
and many return visits.
We just don’t have enough time
to care for them all.
Some of the publishers are assigned
to areas where the congregations
are small or they’re isolated.
For example, here in Mexico
there was a group
of willing, energetic pioneers
that were assigned to an area,
and it just injected life
into the local publishers,
and even the entire congregation benefited.
We could see that the congregation
really blossomed in showing
hospitality, generosity, and love.
It made the congregation more united,
and we could tell they were happier.
They encourage me
and make me want to preach more.
At one point, we were surrounded by people;
they were so spiritually starved
that they were just asking us
for publications.
It always seems that the ones
that go on these campaigns
never forget the experiences
that they’ve had.
The brothers in Costa Rica
are going to share their stories with us.
I remember one sister
who said she had to sell bread
and other products for an entire year
just to be able to come
and serve in our congregation.
On one occasion, we preached to a lady
who had ten children.
It really moved me when she showed up
at the Kingdom Hall
with all of her ten children.
The effort I make has even motivated
my mom to renew her Bible study
and get to know more about Jehovah.
In fact, there were some territories
that we hadn’t preached in for four years
because they are so far away.
But thanks to these brothers
and the effort they made,
we were able to cover
all of our congregation’s territory.
Wow!
I’m really happy
because just seeing the brothers here
gives me strength to keep going.
We met a young woman
who had been praying all week
because she wanted to get to know God better.
She was going through a really tough time.
So when we showed her one of our tracts
and she saw that it was based on the Bible,
she burst into tears.
She realized it was
the answer to her prayers.
In Panama,
the brothers and sisters have seen
the results of their hard work and effort.
Second Corinthians 9:6 says,
‘those that sow bountifully
will reap bountifully.’
And they’ve seen
the truthfulness of those words.
My family has benefited.
For example, my daughter
got baptized
at the last assembly,
and I’ve been encouraged as well.
Now I’m a regular pioneer.
It generates a real pioneer spirit
in the congregation
and that spurs the brothers on
to greater activity.
Some even want to fill out
auxiliary pioneer applications.
When you come on a campaign like this,
something enjoyable is
that people you didn’t even know before
become your closest friends.
My relationship with Jehovah
has gotten stronger.
I’ve seen how he never abandons me.
For many, these campaigns are a life-altering
or life-changing experience.
All the work
that the brothers and sisters
put forth is worth it
when they see the gratitude
and the appreciation
of their Bible students.
And Nicaragua is a country
where people show
that gratefulness for spiritual things.
We spoke with a farmer on one occasion.
And farmers in Nicaragua
do not make very much,
but he was so appreciative
of the publications we had placed with him
that he gave us a sum
that could possibly amount
to a good fourth or a third
of his daily wages.
Anyone who has the opportunity
to go on these campaigns
—they would not regret it.
They would have amazing experiences.
I’ve done it myself.
And these experiences
—these wonderful opportunities
that one would have
to preach on these campaigns—
would be remembered
for the rest of their lives.